8 November 2019 On the 7th November 2019, The Interim Steering Committee on Gender-Based Violence and Femicide (GBVF) held its bi-weekly meeting to discuss the implementation of the GBVF Emergency Action Plan, as well as the management of the funds allocated for its implementation.  The Emergency Action Plan unveiled by President Ramaphosa on 18 September aims to combat violence against women and children through a coordinated government and civil society effort. A total of R1.6bn has been allocated for the implementation of the plan which outlines intervention areas that can be implemented in the next six months. Funds have been committed by different government departments as well as funding development partners.  The allocated budget will be spent by various departments, managed through internal procurement processes. There will be no funds transferred to the Interim Steering Committee. The committee will monitor and ensure implementation of the Emergency Response Action Plan. The committee also received reports from all the departments responsible for the implementation of the emergency plan.  From the reports received, it is worth noting that with regards to the procurement of evidence-collection kits (Paediatric Rape Kits, Adult Rape Kits and Buccal Sample Kits), the South African Police Services is in the process of finalising delivery to all police stations in the country.  Delivery in Gauteng and Limpopo has been completed. On the clearing of all DNA samples related to GBVF at forensic laboratories, SAPS is in the process of enhancing the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) that tracks the processing of GBVF related cases.  The system will be completed by January 2020. To strengthen the capacity of the Family Violence, Child Abuse and Sexual Offences (FCS) Units, at SAPS, a total of 312 police entrants currently under training will be allocated to the FCS by 31 December 2019. The verification of the rape kits will be done by the Interim Committee through inspections at various police stations to ensure availability of the kits. SAPS has also improved communications channels to ensure correct handling of cases by establishing a 24-hour complaints call-centre for service complaints, including GBVF-related service complaints. The number is 0800 333 177. Provincial Complaints Call Centre numbers and e-mail addresses are available at www.saps.gov.za. You can also email to complaintsnodalpoint@saps.gov.za. SAPS has committed to finalizing 80% of GBV related services complaints within 14 working days. This includes review of current internal processes to ensure better efficiency. On the provision of additional shelter and accommodation for victims of gender-based violence, the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure has identified strategic buildings that can be used in all Provinces. These will be will be handed over to the Department of Social Development. The department has also identified 278 Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP) workers to support NGOs working in the GBV space (6 for each of the 44 districts). The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development will evaluate Government Personnel working directly with children and persons with intellectual challenges. The Department has vetted approximately 500 DoJ&CD officials thus far.  1 500 prosecutors and 2 942 FCS members will be vetted against the National Register for Sex Offenders, as required by the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and Related Matters) Amendment Act, 2007. During the meeting, the Committee also agreed on the funding criteria for Civil Society Organisations and calls for proposals will be issued in due course. Finally, the committee thanks everyone who made inputs towards the finalisation of the National Strategic Plan which will be submitted to government by the end of November 2019. For interviews please contact Ms Mmabatho Ramompi on 076 480 3513/ mmabatho.ramompi@women.gov.za Enquiries:  Shalen GajadharCell: 060 979 4235E-mail: shalen.gajadhar@women.gov.za Issued by GCIS on behalf of The Interim Steering Committee on GBVF