26 September 2019 On Friday, 27 September 2019, public servants will march against gender based violence and Femicide. The march reinforces President Cyril Ramaphosa’s call for all sectors of society to work together to stop the violence and the killing of women and children. The planned march takes place during Public Service Month, commemorated under the theme: “Khawuleza”: taking services to the people: “we belong, we care, we serve”.  It further provides public servants with the opportunity to recommit themselves to the Service Charter contract and Batho Pele principles. Arrangements: Participants will converge at Church Square, Pretoria. The march will then proceed to the Union Building lawns where there will be a torch lighting ceremony in honour of the women who died as a result of gender based violence. Following which, will be the reading and signing of a pledge of public servants and the address by Minister of Public Service and Administration, Senzo Mchunu. Media programme: Date: 27 September 2019 Time: 8h30 for 09h30 (Photo opportunity and interviews)Departure: Church Square to Union Building South Lawns Road closure and parking arrangements: 1.Parking  at Departure point  and Union Buildings Members of the media and public servants attending the march and using their own transport are advised to make use of the paid for parking at Karabo Parking on Cnr Paul Kruger & Francis Baard Streets in Pretoria.  The drop off point for public servants transported by bus is at the corner of WF Nkomo and Paul Kruger streets. Arrangements have been made for members of the media to use the parking entrance along Government Avenue at Union Buildings.  They will be assisted by security and marshals on the ground.  Additional parking is available on the road sides near Union Building south lawns. 2.Road closures and alternative routes From the departure point (Church Square), marchers will join Paul Kruger Street and turn right into Madiba Street and proceed straight to the Union Buildings.  The following inter-sections will be affected and motorists are advised to make use of alternative routes: Alternative routes: Media RSVPs should be forwarded to Matikweni Khoza on Email: matikweni@gcis.gov.za or 062 352 0731 and Takalani Mukwevho on Email: takalani@gcis.gov.za or 082 227 9308. Enquiries: Phumla Williams (Acting Director-General) Cell: 083 5010 139 Isaac Mahamba (Tshwane Metro Police)Cell: 082 611 9971