17 May 2019 Members of the public are advised on the following arrangements for transportation and access to the stadium on the day of the inauguration.  The inauguration will be held under the theme – “Together celebrating democracy: Renewal and growth for a better South Africa” on 25 May 2019 at Loftus Versveld. Busses will be transporting people from: Gauteng, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, North West, and Free State are expected to arrive early.  The busses will drop people at the vicinity of the stadium and then proceed to park at Tshwane Events Centre. An estimated 32 000 (thirty two thousands) people are expected to come to the stadium. The public will have access to the stadium gates from 06h00am.People who will be using their own privately arranged transportation are advised to arrive at the park and ride early; their park and ride will be at Tshwane Events Centre. The shuttles from the Tshwane Events Centre will commence from 3:00 am to 6:30.There will be no private vehicle access to the Loftus Versveld Stadium or the area immediately surrounding the venue except for residences with permits. All members of the public who want walk into the stadium are encouraged to go through the accreditation service point at Afrikaans Hoër Seunskool, popularly known as Affies. No one will be allowed into the venue without accreditation. This includes those who will be utilising the Tshwane Events Centre park and ride. All the people that will be accredited at Affies are encouraged to come early to assist in the ensuring that the accreditation process is swift. The official programme will start at 10:55 am with the arrival of the President Elect, followed by inter-faith prayers led by the Chaplain General. People in various provinces are encouraged to go to different public viewing sites across the nine provinces. The ceremony will be showed live at the various sites. Alist and addresses of the viewing sites, with the contact person(s) and the coordinates is available on the government website (www.gov.za\inaguaration 2019).The proceedings of the Presidential Inauguration will also be livestreamed on the Government website. All preparations for the event have made provision for people with disability. The host broadcaster, SABC, will have the South African Sign Language Interpretation on screen during the broadcast. There will be sign language interpreters on stage. The stadium has adequate ramp access for wheelchairs. In provinces, where live viewings will be taking place, arrangements for people with disability will be put in place as well. Road closures have been announced by the City of Tshwane, they will start on Friday, 24 May 2019 at 15h00 and end on Saturday, and 25 May 2019 at 22h00. The information is also available on the government website, and City of Tshwane website. The proceedings of the Presidential Inauguration will be livestreamed on the Government website. Members of the public can follow the Presidential Inauguration and interact on social media via Twitter: @GovernmentZA / @SAGovNews and Facebook: GovernmentZA. The official Presidential Inauguration hashtag is #SAInauguration19.  More updates can be accessed through a special APP that has been developed for the inauguration and it can be accessed on this link: https://www.gov.za/inauguration2019/index.html “Government would like to encourage all South Africans to be part of this momentous occasion in our country as the President Elect will be inaugurated on 25 May 2019” said the Acting Director General of the GCIS, Phumla Williams. Enquiries:Phumla Williams - Acting Director General Cell: 083 5010 139